---
layout: post
title:  "Research for PHIL5830 presentation"
date:   2023-01-16 15:00:00 +0000
categories: university philosophy
---

**DISCLAMER:** This write-up is for a university assignment. 

## Premise

Collection page for resources found, relating to the question:
> What is the connection between Cognitive Science and AI? 

Along with a presentation outline for how to best present the question and it's sub-questions.

### Outline Suggestions

- Breakdown of question
	- What is Cognitive Science
	- What is Artificial Intelligence (AI)
- Brief history
	- Their origins
	- Significant paradigms that overlap if any
- Their connection
	- Previously
	- Currently
	- In the future
- Is their connection good or bad?
	- Does utilizing AI to attempt to model cognition hinder Cognitive Science, or vice versa?
	- Is AI limited due to it being model on what we as humans recognize cognition to be?

### Research Section

This section contains links to various sources found when researching this question. With interesting sections highligheted via block quotes.

#### [Cognitive Science](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/cognitive-science)
Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy's general introduction to Cognitive Science, could be used as a supplement to the previous required reading covering the same topic.

> Useful info goes here.

#### [Cognitive science in the era of artificial intelligence](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0010027717303013)
A roadmap for reverse-engineering the infant language-learner

A seemingly interesting use-case for AI within Cognitive Science. 

#### [AI and Cognitive Science: The Past and Next 30 Years](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/j.1756-8765.2010.01083.x)
A look into AI's progress in the last 30 years - parallel to, but not within the field of Cognitive Science.

States that AI has been "shunned" from the Cognitive Science society, but is still making headway in terms of developing AI as a field.

#### [Simulating the human mind and its complexity](https://ietresearch.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1049/ccs.2019.0022)
A study explaining how AI can simulate the human mind, and the issues that arise from attempting to do so.

#### [Foundational issues in AI and Cognitive Science](https://books.google.co.uk/books?hl=en&lr=&id=mLleWkFyESoC&oi=fnd&pg=PP1&dq=cognitive+science+and+ai&ots=Mno-Hff6UW&sig=pX5-T_5_OVDPU6jyw5Gd5rt2YxU#v=onepage&q&f=false) 
This book states that there is a programmatic impasse in the field of Artificial Intelligence and Cognitive Science, explains why this is and outlines an alternative approach to transcend this impasse.

#### [On the Role of AI in the Ongoing Paradigm Shift within the Cognitive Sciences](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-540-77296-5_7)
Supports the view that the ongoing shift from orthodox to embodied-embedded cognitive science has been significantly influenced by the experimental results generated by AI research.
